# IEEE 1275-1994
After 5 years the IEEE 1275-1994 standard got withdrawn by the IEEE
Standards Association. This does by no means implicate that this
standard is abandoned or dead. There are several commercial
implementations of Open Firmware and a quite reasonable number of
hardware vendors support it. IEEE sold the rights to distribute the
standards document to Global Engineering who still offer it.

To Contact Global Engineering, use Phone: 1-800-854-7179, Fax:
303-397-2740. Out side the U.S. call 303-792-2181. You can also purchase
the IEEE 1275-1994 document online from the [Global Engineering
website](http://global.ihs.com/).

To get started with Open Firmware, download the IEEE 1275-1994, Standard
for Boot (Initialization Configuration) Firmware Core Requirements and
Practices. You can get the document from our [local
mirror](http://www.openbios.org/data/docs/of1275.pdf) or from the [IEEE
1275-1994 ftp archive at
sun.com](ftp://playground.sun.com/pub/p1275/coredoc/1275-1994/1275.ps.gz).

For more information on IEEE 1275 Open Firmware, we recommend you browse
the [IEEE Standard 1275 Working Group's Home
Page](http://playground.sun.com/pub/p1275).

No Standard without mistakes - This
[Errata](http://www.openbios.org/data/docs/1275errata.pdf) document
contains corrections of mistakes and clarifications of the IEEE
1275-1994 standard (Draft 4).

The Open Firmware standard is the elementary base of OpenBIOS. Any
questions are welcome, please contact Stefan Reinauer or the [OpenBIOS
Mailinglist](Mailinglist).
